

COURSE SPECIFICATION 
Degree Programmes
MPU3193/MPU3192 Philosophy and Current Issues 

LecturerMr. Amir Affendy
HYPERLINK "mailto:amiraffendi@segi.edu.my"amiraffendi@segi.edu.my

SEGi University Kota Damansara 


COURSE SYNOPSIS
This course covers the relationship of philosophy with the National Education Philosophy and the National Principles. The use of philosophy as a tool to purify the culture of thought in life through arts and methods of thinking as well as human concepts. Major topics in philosophy namely epistemology, metaphysics and ethics are discussed in the context of current issues. Emphasis is given to philosophy as a basis for intercultural dialogue and fostering common values. At the end of this course, students will be able to see the disciplines of knowledge as a body of knowledge that is comprehensive and related to each other.     

COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES
At the end of the course, the students should be able to:
CLO1:	Explain the current issues based on philosophy, National Education Philosophy, and National Principles.
CLO2:	Discuss current issues based on mainstream thoughts in philosophy.
CLO3:	Analyze current issues through a comparative philosophical perspective as a basis for intercultural dialogue.

																			
																		
METHODS OF TEACHING
Lecture, tutorial, student-led group discussion, individual/ group research, assignment and presentation, and blended learning.
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
Major Reference Texts: 
Noor Hisham Md. Nawi (Ed.) (2020). Modul Falsafah dan Isu Semasa. Kota Bharu: Penerbit UMK.

Amran Muhammad (Ed.) (2022). Modul Falsafah dan Isu Semasa Versi Infografik. ISSI, UIAM & UCYP. 


Additional references supporting the course
Philips, D.C. (Ed.) (2014) Encyclopedia of Educational Theory and Philosophy (1st Ed). SAGE Publication.

Dzulkifli, A.R. & Rosnani, H. (2019) Pentafsiran Baharu Falsafah Pendidikan Kebangsaan dan Pelaksanaannya Pasca 2020. Kuala Lumpur: IIUM Press.

Mitchell, H.B. (2011) Roots of Wisdom: A Tapestry of Philosophical Traditions (6th Ed.). Wadsworth: Cengage Learning.

Rosnani Hashim (2017). Revitalization of Philosophy and Philosophical Inquiry in Muslim Education. Kull of Education. IIUM.

ACADEMIC INTEGRITY & CODE OF HONOR
Students assume full responsibility for the content and integrity of the academic work they submit. The guiding principles of academic integrity shall be that a studentā€™s submitted work, examinations, reports, and projects must be that studentā€™s own work. Students shall be guilty of violating the code of honour if they:
Represent the work of others as his or hers own, including failure to properly cite sources.
Use or obtain unauthorized assistance in any academic work.
Give unauthorized assistance to other students.
Modify, without professor approval, an examination, paper, record, or report for the purpose of obtaining additional credit.
Misrepresent the content of submitted work.

The penalty for violating the academic integrity is severe. Any student violating the academic integrity is subject to receive a failing grade for the course and to be reported to the Head of School. If a student is unclear about whether a particular situation may constitute a violation, the student should meet with the Programme Coordinator to discuss the situation.



COURSE EVALUATION

CLOs
Assessment Methods
CLO1: 
Explain the current issues based on philosophy, National Education Philosophy and National Principles.
Quiz (20%)
Individual Reflective Essay (30%)

CLO2: 
Discuss current issues based on mainstream thoughts in philosophy.
Group Presentation (20%)
CLO3: 
Analyze current issues through a comparative philosophical perspective as a basis for intercultural dialogue.
Group Report (30%)


Group Report

Assignment
Explanation
Group Report 
(30 marks) 
Students are required to form a group of 5 - 7 students for this assignment. 

Tasks 
Students need to choose contemporary social issue that has broad and profound impacts on society. For example: 
Domestic Abuse 
Capital Punishment 
Pollution 
Paedophilia
Alcoholism 
Drug Abuse 
Sexual Harassment 
Cyber Bullying 
Pornography 
Baby Dumping 
Child Abuse 

Students are advised to READ related issue from academic journals, online news portal, and books to get to know about the topic well. Each group are advised to read 6 ACADEMIC JOURNALS related to your report writing. 

Once you have done reading, you must summarize the issue BASED ON YOUR READING. Include details such as: 
Introduction to the issue 
Definition of the issue 
Causes on why this issue happens 
Effects of the issue on the society 
Solution to the issues 
Statistics of this issue in Malaysia 

Then, analyze the issue with ONE THEORY of social sciences which is related to the title and the issue and explain to relate it together with the theory. 

Your report most consist of (in order below):
Introduction of topic 
Objectives of the report - need to have 3 objectives (why you are doing this report ā€“ can be done in point form)
Definition of the terms 
Causes of the issue 
Impacts/Effects of this issue on the society 
Statistic of this issue in Malaysia (past 5 years)
Summary of what you read in the Academic Journals/ Online News/ Newspapers. 
Analyze this issue with Social Science Theory related with the topic
Group Reflection on the issue
Conclusion about this issue 
References (Harvard Style referencing) 
Appendix (picture) 

Submission Requirements 
Students are REQUIRED to submit their assignment in Portable Document Format (PDF) via Camu.
Normal Margin 
Justified Text 
Times New Roman, size 12
12-15 pages minimum (Excluding cover page, table of content)
Word limit around 1500-2000 words
All of your report submission required for Plagiarism Checker submission. Please ensure your Plagiarism Checker score below 30%
Group Presentation
(20 marks)  
Based on the report prepared, each group need to prepare a creative presentation containing 10-15 slides and the duration of the presentation is between 10 to 15 minutes. 
The outline of the presentation as follow 
Background and Objectives 
Theory 
Findings/Discussion 
Analysis (discussion)
Individual Reflective Essay 
(30 marks) 
This reflective essay is opinion-based essay, and the academic references are not needed. You are required to write an essay between 600 to 700 words. In this essay, you are required to come out with one statement or phrase that influences your life, or something that motivates you in your life. Elaborate on how that phrase help you and guide you in life now and help you to achieve better future now. You need to support your arguments by elaborating achievements, memories or situations that can relate to the phrase that you believe in. 
Quiz 
(20 marks)

The quiz comprises multiple-choice questions and structured questions. The questions cover from Chapter 1 to Chapter 5.
Important Dates 
Report Submission: 28/3/2026
Presentation:4 /4/2026
Individual Reflective Essays: 4/4/2026
Quiz: 4/4/2026



CLASS MANAGEMENT
The lectures will be conducted online using Microsoft Team. The link for the lectures will be the same link throughout the semester. All information regarding class will be posted to Telegram/ WhatsApp Group (created by your centre) and Camu Announcement. 

Students are to attend classes regularly and punctually. Attendance will be taken using Microsoft Form anytime during the class time. Please stay alert. The students are not compulsory to switch on the camera but should be always ready when the name been called. Failure to respond when the name been called considered ABSENT.

Students are NOT to be absent more than THREE (3) classes as doing so will consequently lead to a BAR of the course.  The absenteeism includes with medical certificates, excuses letter or other related documentation.  

                      Course Lesson Plan
Subject Title / Code: MPU3193/MPU3192 Philosophy and Current Issues			Start of Class: 31 Jan 2026 
Program: Degree Programmes			    						End of Class:  4 April 2026 
Course Lead: Amir Affendy Mohd


Week 
Topic
Topic Learning OutcomesCLOClass
Activity Prior
Reading1
Introduction to the Course
Briefing on CourseworkNA2
Introduction to PhilosophyTo be able to:
Explain the definition, concept, reason, and history of development of philosophy
Explain the role of National Education Philosophy as medium to prepare Malaysian in facing global challengesCLO1Lecture

Formative Assessment: Tutorial3
Philosophy in Life 
To be able to:
Explain the development of philosophical knowledge and the division of philosophical knowledge into theoretical and practical
Analyze the development and new emergence in the world of philosophy such as technological philosophy, organizational philosophy and ecological philosophyCLO1
Lecture
Formative Assessment: Discussion

4
LogicTo be able to:
Explain the role, position and relations of logic and philosophical knowledgeCLO2Lecture
Formative Assessment: Discussion5
Psychology and Sociology
To be able to:
Explain the human concept from the religion and philosophical perspective.
Relate the human concept based on clear understanding on the formation of balanced human.CLO2


Lecture
Summative Assessment
Discussion
6
MetaphysicsTo be able to:
Explain the relationship between man and nature in the context past cosmology and current ecologyCLO3Lecture
Formative Assessment: Discussion
7
EpistemologyTo be able to:
Explain the development of scientific revolution and its effects on epistemology
CLO3Lecture
Formative Assessment: Discussion
8
Ideology
To be able to:
Explain the challenges of post-modern relative ideology as reaction to the failure of modernityCLO3Lecture
Summative Assessment:
Group Report Summit 
   
9
DecolonizationTo be able to:
Explain the definition, concept and history of development of decolonizationCLO3Lecture
Summative Assessment: 
Presentation10
Case Studies for Philosophy and Current Issues 	To be able to:
Explain the current issues that happen nationally or globally and its relation to various school of thoughtCLO3Lecture
Formative Assessment: Tutorial
Individual Essay 11Quiz Quiz for this subject 
ā—¸ Will be covering chapter 1 to chapter 7CLO 2Lecture
Summative Assessment:
Quiz  

Note: Students required read the chapters prior to lecturer. All assignments are due on the date stated by instructor.



Prepared by	: ______________________________		Verified by HOS/SPC	:  ____________________________________
                           Amir Affendy Mohd					   		               Katrunnada Mohd Said
		   Lecturer					   	   				   Head of School
		   Faculty of Education, Languages, 							   Faculty of Education, Languages,
                           Psychology & Music				  	   	   		   Psychology & Music
		   SEGi University, Kota Damansara							   SEGi College Subang Jaya
Date		: 31 January 2026						Date			:  












 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 1 | Last Revised: 10 January 2025 




